# User Install vs Project Executable

The default way of installing Usagi is to run the install script that makes the
`usagi` command available across your computer's user. That way from any folder,
you can run `usagi` to interact with the engine. This is convenient for a few
reasons:

- It's easy to update the engine when there are bug fixes and new features, you
  just run `usagi update` once.
- If you use multiple operating systems, you install Usagi for each system and
  run the same command and it works without having to worry about the macOS
  executable vs the Linux executable.
- When you're creating new projects with `usagi init`, the command is available
  no matter where you want to put your project.

But there are some downsides to be aware of with user installs of Usagi. Let's
say you make a game with Usagi v1. And then 5 years later, there's Usagi v2 that
comes out and some of the functions change. If you did `usagi update` and then
ran your game, your game might have errors that you need to fix, which could be
tedious. I don't know what the future of Usagi will bring, so if you want to
make sure your projects are resilient to change's in the engine, you can
download the Usagi version that corresponds to your project and put the `usagi`
executable in your project's folder.

Also, if you have many Usagi projects and they rely upon different versions of
the game engine, it can be useful to put the version you used for that game in
your project's folder.

All historical downloads of Usagi from v1.0.0 and onward are available at
[https://codeberg.org/brettchalupa/usagi/releases](https://codeberg.org/brettchalupa/usagi/releases).
If you made your game with Usagi v1.1.1, you'd fine that release and download
it. Decompress the archive and put the `usagi` (or `usagi.exe`) in your
project's folder. Then you'd run commands by referencing it locally, like
`./usagi dev` on Linux and macOS or `.\usagi.exe dev` on Windows. The `./` and
`.\` prefixes say: use the local, project executable instead of the `usagi`
installed on the system. It's referencing the file path.

Using a project executable is ideal if you're only going to develop your games
on a single operating system. Otherwise you'll run into issues trying to use the
macOS executable on Linux.

It's ultimately your decision for how you want to install and interact with
`usagi`. In summary, install Usagi for your user if you value easily and quick
accessing it. If you want the same Usagi version you made your game with to be
present years down the line, put the `usagi` executable in your project's
folder.

If you use `usagi init` for your projects, look at the top of `USAGI.md` to see
the version:

```
<!-- Generated by usagi 1.1.1. Run `usagi refresh` to update. -->
```

That can be an easy hint to see which version was used at the time of
`usagi init` or `usagi refresh`.
